.TH FMDT 1 "@DATE@" "Release @VERSION@" "@PACKAGE@"

.SH NAME
fmdt \- file metadata tools.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.RE
\fBfmdt\fP \fB\-h\fP|\fB\-\-help\fP
.RS 4
Display this help message.

.RE
\fBfmdt\fP pdf \fIaction\fP [\fIoptions\fP]...
.RS 4
PDF file metadata tools.

.SH CONFIGURATION

User-specific configuration options can be set in the file \fB~/.fmdtconfig\fP.

.SH PDF FILE METADATA TOOLS

.SS Actions

.RE
\fBedit\fP {\fIfiles\fP|\fIdirectories\fP}...
.RS 4
Read BibTeX bibliographic data from PDF \fIfiles\fP, or PDF files within \fIdirectories\fP, and write to a temporary file.
This file is then opened in an editing program, given either by the \fB$VISUAL\fP or \fB$EDITOR\fP environment variables, or else the program \fB@fallback_editor@\fP.
Any modifications are then written back to the PDF files given by the \fIfile\fP field in each BibTeX entry.

\fBfmdt\fP will also automatically generate a key for each BibTeX entry, based upon its author list, year, and title.

.RE
\fBretrieve\fP [\fB\-f\fP|\fB\-\-from\fP \fIsource\fP] \fIfile\fP \fIquery\fP
.RS 4
Interrogate the online \fIsource\fP using the given \fIquery\fP, and write any matched BibTeX bibliographic data to a temporary file.
This file is then opened in an editing program, as for \fIedit\fP.
Any modifications are then written to the given PDF \fIfile\fP.

The following \fsource\fPs are supported:
.RS 3
\fBads\fP: query the NASA ADS database.
.RE

.RE
\fBexport\fP [\fB\-e\fP|\fB\-\-exclude\fP \fIBibTeX-field\fP]... {\fIfiles\fP|\fIdirectories\fP}...
.RS 4
Read BibTeX bibliographic data from PDF \fIfiles\fP, or PDF files within \fIdirectories\fP, and print to standard output.
Any \fIBibTeX-field\fPs given to \fB\-\-exclude\fP are removed before printing.

.RE
\fBadd\fP {\fIfiles\fP|\fIdirectories\fP}...
.RS 4
Add PDF \fIfiles\fP, or PDF files within \fIdirectories\fP, to the PDF library.

.RE
\fBremove\fP [\fB\-t\fP|\fB\-\-to\fP \fIdirectory\fP] {\fIlibrary files\fP|\fIlibrary directories\fP}...
.RS 4
Remove PDF \fIfiles\fP, or PDF files within \fIdirectories\fP, from the PDF library.
Copies of the removed PDF files are saved to the \fIdirectory\fP given by \fB\-\-to\fP, which default to the system temporary directory, e.g. \fB/tmp\fP.

.RE
\fBreorganise\fP
.RS 4
Reorganise all files in the PDF library, and regenerate BibTeX keys.

.SS Configuration Options

The following configuration options can be set under the section \fB[pdf]\fP:

.RE
\fBlibdir\fP
.RS 4
Location of the PDF library; defaults to \fB~/PDFLibrary\fP.
